# Console Wingman

A command-line assistant that transforms natural language descriptions into shell commands using AI.

## Prerequisites

- set `GEMINI_API_KEY` environment variable (https://aistudio.google.com/app/api-keys)
- `jq` for JSON parsing (required on linux only)

### Supported platforms

- `bash`
- `powershell`

## Installation

1. Clone the tool locally in a location of your choosing

```
git clone git@github.com:saippua/console-wingman.git
cd console-wingman
```

2. Then run the respective command for your terminal

```
# Linux (bash)
echo "source \"$PWD/cli/bash/console-wingman.sh\"" | envsubst >> "$HOME/.bashrc" && source $HOME/.bashrc

# Windows (powershell)
Add-Content -Path $PROFILE -Value "`n. `"$PWD\cli\powershell\console-wingman.ps1`""
```

## Usage

1. Type a natural language description of the desired action in your prompt
2. Press `Ctrl+G` to invoke the tool
3. The tool will replace your input with the appropriate command but does not run it automatically

**VERIFY THE COMMAND YOURSELF BEFORE YOU RUN IT!**  
Shell commands can do dangerous, system-altering things. Never run something you don't understand!

### Examples

```
# Type this:
list all files including hidden ones

# Press Ctrl+G, get this:
ls -la


# Type this:
rename all png files in current directory with a IMG_ prefix

# Press Ctrl+G, get this:
for f in *.png; do mv "$f" "IMG_$f"; done


# Type this:
find meaning in life

# Press Ctrl+G, get this:
[ERROR] Query timeout exceeded
```

## Disclaimer

The commands suggested by this tool are generated stochastically. This means an innocuous prompt such as "print foobar" could theoretically result in a command which wipes your hard drive, deletes your remote git branches, or totally harshes your mellow in some other creative way. For this reason it is incredibly important that you do not blindly run commands generated by this tool! **ALWAYS** verify the command yourself before running it.

The author of this repository is not liable for any loss of data, sleep, or sanity due to misuse of this tool.
